## Route 53: Domain Name Service (DNS)
Domain Name Service (DNS): Translate human-readable domain names into IP addresses.

Key features of Route 53 include:
- **Domain Registration**: You can register domain names directly through Route 53. Route 53 is DNS service, GoDaddy is Domain Registrar. We purchase the domain from GoDaddy and use Route 53 to manage DNS records.
- **DNS Routing**: Route 53 allows you to route traffic based on various policies to different endpoints, such as Amazon EC2 instances, Elastic Load Balancers, Amazon S3 buckets, or even external resources.
- **Health Checks**: Route 53 can monitor the health of your resources and route traffic away from unhealthy endpoints.
- **Traffic Flow**: Route 53 Traffic Flow allows you to visually manage how traffic is routed to your resources, making it easier to implement complex routing configurations.

Route 53 is commonly used for hosting public-facing websites, managing internal DNS for private resources, and implementing global load balancing and failover solutions.

#### Routing policies: define a DNS record (key-value pair with attributes)
- **DNS record types**
	-  A
	- AAAA
	- CNAME
	- NS
	- Alias v.s. CNAME
		- CNAME: points a hostname to any other hostnames
		- Alias: points a hostname to an AWS resource. Free of charge. Native health check.
- **Based on**
	- Simple
	- Weighted: redirect part of the traffic based on weight (e.g. percentage). It's a common use case to send part of traffic to a new version of application.
	- Latency: evaluate the latency between users and AWS Regions, and help them get a DNS response that will minimize their latency (e.g. response time)
	- Failover: instance 1 not healthy, route to instance 2
	- Geolocation:
	- Geoproximity: bias
	- IP
	- Multi-value
- **TTL**
	Each DNS record has a TTL (Time To Live) which orders clients for how long to cache these values and not overload the DNS Resolver with DNS requests. The TTL value should be set to strike a balance between how long the value should be cached vs. how many requests should go to the DNS Resolver.
	- High TTL: Less traffic on Route 53; possibly outdated records
	- Low TTL: More traffic on Route 53; records are outdated for less time; easy to change records so users will experience less downtime.

#### Health checks
- Monitor an endpoint
- Calculated Health checks
- Private Hosted Zones
