
A **managed** database service, like having a specialized filing cabinet for the structured data that takes care of organizing, retrieving, and storing efficiently. **RDS supports MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Oracle, MS SQL Server, and Amazon Aurora.**

You can authenticate to DB instance using AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM) database authentication. With this authentication method, you don't need to use a password when you connect to a DB instance. Instead, you use an authentication token. An authentication token is a unique string of characters that Amazon RDS generates on request. Each token has a lifetime of 15 minutes. You don't need to store user credentials in the database, because authentication is managed externally using IAM.

RDS Proxy vs multi-AZ in terms of re-connecting to DB.

You can not create encrypted Read Replicas from an unencrypted RDS DB instance.

Multi-AZ follows **synchronous** replication and spans at least two Availability Zones (AZs) within a single region. Read replicas follow **asynchronous** replication and can be within an Availability Zone (AZ), Cross-AZ, or Cross-Region

## Standby
**RDS applies OS updates by performing maintenance on the standby, then promoting the standby to primary, and finally performing maintenance on the old primary, which becomes the new standby**
Running a DB instance as a Multi-AZ deployment can further reduce the impact of a maintenance event because RDS applies operating system updates by following these steps:
- Perform maintenance on the standby.
- Promote the standby to primary.
- Perform maintenance on the old primary, which becomes the new standby.

When you modify the database engine for your DB instance in a Multi-AZ deployment, then Amazon RDS upgrades both the primary and secondary DB instances at the same time. In this case, the database engine for the entire Multi-AZ deployment is shut down during the upgrade.

## Read replica
- RDS database can have up to 15 Read Replicas.
- Read Replicas have Asynchronous Replication, therefore it's likely users will only read Eventual Consistency.
- A Read Replica in a different AWS Region than the source database can be used as a standby database and promoted to become the new production database in case of a regional disruption. So, we'll have a highly available (because of Multi-AZ) RDS DB Instance in the destination AWS Region with both read and write available.

## RDS in multi-AZ
- Multi-AZ keeps the same connection string regardless of which database is up.
- Multi-AZ won't help when a disaster happens at the AWS region level. Multi-AZ helps when a disaster happens at the AZ level.

## Encryption
- Encrypt an unencrypted RDS DB instance: Create a snapshot of the unencrypted RDS DB instance, copy the snapshot and tick "Enable encryption", then restore the RDS DB instance from the encrypted snapshot.
- Can not create encrypted Read Replicas from an unencrypted RDS DB instance.
- Oracle does **NOT** support IAM Database Authentication