
A **managed** database service, like having a specialized filing cabinet for the structured data that takes care of organizing, retrieving, and storing efficiently. **RDS supports MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, Oracle, MS SQL Server, and Amazon Aurora.**

RDS Proxy vs multi-AZ in terms of re-connecting to DB.

You can not create encrypted Read Replicas from an unencrypted RDS DB instance.

Multi-AZ follows **synchronous** replication and spans at least two Availability Zones (AZs) within a single region. Read replicas follow **asynchronous** replication and can be within an Availability Zone (AZ), Cross-AZ, or Cross-Region

- Read replica
	- RDS database can have up to 15 Read Replicas.
	- Read Replicas have Asynchronous Replication, therefore it's likely users will only read Eventual Consistency.
	- A Read Replica in a different AWS Region than the source database can be used as a standby database and promoted to become the new production database in case of a regional disruption. So, we'll have a highly available (because of Multi-AZ) RDS DB Instance in the destination AWS Region with both read and write available.

- RDS in multi-AZ
	- Multi-AZ keeps the same connection string regardless of which database is up.
	- Multi-AZ won't help when a disaster happens at the AWS region level. Multi-AZ helps when a disaster happens at the AZ level.

- Encryption
	- Encrypt an unencrypted RDS DB instance: Create a snapshot of the unencrypted RDS DB instance, copy the snapshot and tick "Enable encryption", then restore the RDS DB instance from the encrypted snapshot.
	- Can not create encrypted Read Replicas from an unencrypted RDS DB instance.
	- Oracle does **NOT** support IAM Database Authentication