## **DynamoDB**: Fully managed NoSQL database.
- A NoSQL database service for unstructured data, like a magical notebook that instantly stores and retrieves notes no matter how many you have.
- **serverless** with no servers to provision, patch, or manage and no software to install, maintain or operate. 
- auto scales tables up and down to adjust for capacity and maintain performance. Also provides the on-demand backup capability to create full backups of tables for long-term retention and archival for regulatory compliance needs.
- provides both provisioned (specify RCU & WCU) and on-demand (pay for what you use) capacity modes. RCU = “Read Capacity Units,” and WCU = “Write Capacity Units." RCU and WCU are decoupled, so you can increase/decrease each value separately.
- The maximum size of an item in a DynamoDB table is **400kb**.

- DAX: DynamoDB Accelerator
	- A fully managed, highly available, in-memory cache for DynamoDB that delivers up to a 10x performance improvement without requiring developers to manage cache invalidation, data population, or cluster management. It caches the most frequently used data, thus offloading the heavy reads on hot keys off your DynamoDB table, hence preventing the `ProvisionedThroughputExceededException` exception.

- DynamoDB Streams
	- It allows you to capture a time-ordered sequence of item-level modifications in a DynamoDB table. It's integrated with AWS Lambda so that you create triggers that automatically respond to events in real-time.
	- It enable DynamoDB to get a changelog and use that changelog to replicate data across replica tables in other AWS Regions.

It has an out-of-the-box caching feature.