
- **What is EFS? v.s EBS?**
	- Managed NFS (network file system) that can be mounted **on many EC2 in multi-AZ**
	- Highly available, scalable, expensive (3x gp2), pay per use
	- allow multiple EC2 instances to access the file system at the same time
	- use cases: content management, web serving, data sharing, wordpress.
	- Uses NFSv4.1 protocol
	- Uses security group to control access to EFS
	- Compatible with Linux based AMI (not Windows)
	- Encryption at rest using KMS
	- POSIX file system (~Linux) that has a standard file API
	- File system scales automatically, pay-per-use, no capacity planning!

## Performance
- EFS Scale
	- 1000s of concurrent NFS clients, 10 GB+ /s throughput
	- Grow to Petabyte-scale network file system, automatically
- Performance Mode (set at EFS creation time)
	- General Purpose (default) – latency-sensitive use cases (web server, CMS, etc…)
	- Max I/O – higher latency, throughput, highly parallel (big data, media processing)
- Throughput Mode
	- Bursting – 1 TB = 50MiB/s + burst of up to 100MiB/s
	- Provisioned – set your throughput regardless of storage size, ex: 1 GiB/s for 1 TB storage
	- Elastic – **automatically scales throughput up or down based on your workloads**
		- Up to 3GiB/s for reads and 1GiB/s for writes
		- Used for unpredictable workloads

## Storage Classes
- Storage Tiers (lifecycle management feature – move file after N days)
	- Standard: for frequently accessed files
	- Infrequent access (EFS-IA): cost to retrieve files, lower price to store. **Enable EFS-IA with a Lifecycle Policy**
	- Archive: rarely accessed data (few times each year), 50% cheaper
	- Implement lifecycle policies to move files between storage tiers
- Availability and durability
	- Standard: Multi-AZ, great for prod
	- One Zone: **One AZ, great for dev, backup enabled by default, compatible with IA (EFS One Zone-IA)**

- Over 90% in cost savings

## Practice 
NFS: Network File System, a distributed file system protocol that allows a user on a client computer to access files over a network as if they were stored locally on the client's own hard drive.
vs Google Drive
- serve similar purposes in providing file storage and access, but use different technologies and architectures. Google Drive is a cloud-based storage service with its own protocols, while NFS is a network file system protocol designed for sharing files over a local or wide area network. Google Drive is a cloud-based service designed for personal and collaborative file storage and sharing, while NFS is a network file system protocol primarily used for centralized file storage and sharing within traditional IT environments.