**Lambda**: Serverless compute service for running code without provisioning or managing servers.

message size: The minimum message size is 1 byte (1 character). The maximum is 262,144 bytes (256 KB).

## Memory
Memory is the principal lever available to Lambda developers for controlling the performance of a function. You can configure the amount of memory allocated to a Lambda function, between 128 MB and 10,240 MB. The Lambda console defaults new functions to the smallest setting and many developers also choose 128 MB for their functions.

The amount of memory also determines the amount of virtual CPU available to a function. Adding more memory proportionally increases the amount of CPU, increasing the overall computational power available. If a function is CPU-, network- or memory-bound, then changing the memory setting can dramatically improve its performance.

## Concurrency
In Lambda, concurrency is the number of requests the function can handle at the same time. There are two types of concurrency controls available:

- Reserved concurrency – Reserved concurrency guarantees the maximum number of concurrent instances for the function. When a function has reserved concurrency, no other function can use that concurrency. There is no charge for configuring reserved concurrency for a function.
- Provisioned concurrency – Provisioned concurrency initializes a requested number of execution environments so that they are prepared to respond immediately to your function's invocations. Note that configuring provisioned concurrency incurs charges to your AWS account.

## Metrics
- **ApproximateNumberOfMessagesVisible** 
	- CloudWatch Amazon SQS queue metric. The number of messages in a queue might not change proportionally to the size of the Auto Scaling group that processes messages from the queue. Hence, this metric does not work for target tracking.