### Kinesis => real-time streaming model

- streaming data v.s. data
	- streaming data is the data generated at this very now. Static/batch data stored and processed in discrete chunks or batches.

A platform for collecting, processing, and analyzing real-time, streaming data, akin to monitoring and managing the flow of information.
- **Data streams
	- Performance
		- The capacity limits of a Kinesis data stream are defined by the number of shards within the data stream. The limits can be exceeded by either data throughput or the number of reading data calls. Each shard allows for 1 MB/s incoming data and 2 MB/s outgoing data. You should increase the number of shards within the data stream to provide enough capacity.
	- Producers: produce records(partition key + data blob) into stream
		- `aws kinesis put-record --stream-name Demostream --partition-key user1 --data "user signup" --cli-binary-format raw-in-base64-out`
		- `aws kinesis describe-stream --stream-name Demostream
		- `aws kinesis get-shard-iterator --stream-name Demostream --shard-id shardId-000000000000 --shard-iterator-type TRIM_HORIZON
		- `aws kinesis get-records --shard-iterator "AAAAAAAAAAG5U/7UVKD+rFGfmq6suBhb2WCaqL+GN9sgXkxhE7vPheX1rpI1Yml5EGyV/JNu5+wlXUGdeKVOo8hUOUGvOE6qw6aRgbdG/yhYX1ow8SOdExxDlIr1t7tu0C3FsMjKteNUR8GBv8LzfI3wCDCrZa9OZ+4GLxlCgnIYgSKzHGn6NAMvDDOsIcdHP8oqYPUn98x1Q5Hh+stuBW+axU3tZeYHl+g8fdcq5nCg9r8PLhRbDA=="`
	- Shards: define capacity
	- Consumers: Receive and consume the records. The consumers can be Apps(KCL, SDK), lambda, Data firehose, Data Analytics...
		- Write you own
	- Capacity Modes
		- Provisioned mode
		- On-demand mode
	- Security: the same as SQS and SNS + VPC, Monitor API calls using CloudTail
- **Data firehose
	- Producers => Firehose => Batch writes to Destinations
		- Destinations
			- AWS: Redshift / S3 / OpenSearch
			- 3rd party partner: Splunk / MongoDB / DataDog / NewRelic
			- Custom: send to any HTTP endpoint
	- Firehose cannot directly write into a DynamoDB table
- **Data streams v.s. Data firehose

#### Ordering data 
- into Kinesis
	- Using partition key. The same key will always go to the same shard. Kinesis Data Stream uses the partition key associated with each data record to determine which shard a given data record belongs to. Using the identity of each user as the partition key ensures the data for each user is ordered hence sent to the same shard.
- into SQS FIFO
	- No GroupID, messages are consumed in the order sent, with only one consumer.
	- With GroupID, the number of consumers can be scaled.